NATIONALISATION OF THE LAND 221

The present proprietors could in justice only
demand for their land its fair market velue. They¹
mo'y have in theory a right to the possession of it
for all eternity; but this is not a right which will
entitle or enable them to get more for it in fact
than s sum equo] to between twenty and thirty
annual rents. They could reasonably claim from
the State, supposing the nationalisation of the land
were resolved on, only its ordinary selling price.
But this they could with perfect justice claim; this
could not honestly be refused to them. To maintein
the contrary is to advocate theft. The proposnl of
ΜΓ. George and his followers to appropriate the rent
of land by throwing on it all public burdens is a
suggestion to thes of the meanest kind; to thest
which knows andis ashsmed of itself, end tries to
disguise itself under the name and in the form of
taxation. The State which adopts it will only add
hypocrisy to theft.

The proposal, also osten put forwerd of late, that,
on due intimation, property in land should be
appropriated by the State without compensation,
¹when present owners die, or after the lapse of
twenty or thirty years' possession, is likewise one
of flagrant dishonesty. Imagine three men: one
invests his money in land, the second buys house·
property, the third acquires bank-shares. Can any
good reason be given why the capital of the first
alone is, either at his death or after thirty years, to
go to the motion, while that of the other two is to
remain their own however long they may live end st
their death to go to their heire? Or is it in the

 

