248 SOCIALISM

siderable portion of their wealth for consumption,
for enjoyment, but not for production, not to use ae
capital. But even if expropriated capitelists be
found content to settle down on these terme into
collectivist citizens, their wealth must be lost, so
far ss the Collectivist State is concerned, to produc-
tion, to capital. Itis much more probable, however,
that they would not be thus content, but would
transfer themselves aud their wealth to some more
hospitable shore, where they could again start as
capitalists, and have scope for a free aud energetic
life. It is obvious that it would be to the interest
of all individuale who economised in a nation where
Collectivism was established to send their savings
abroad. The State could not prevent this without
having recourse to arts of espionage and acts of
tyranny degrading both to rulers and ruled, and
tending to the foolish end of isolating the natiou
from the rest of the world, of withdrawing the
current of its life from the general movement of
history. In all probability it would fail, whatever
means it employed. In all probability, under 001-
lectivism there would be a continuone decresse of
capital at home, and a continuone flow of individual
saviugs to swell the capital employed in foreign
industry and enterprise.

My general conclusion, then, is that a Collectivist
State can neither establish itself nor maintain
itself; that Collectivism is incapable of any solid
and etable realisation.

Nor is it desirable that it should be realised; for
it is Socialism in the proper sense of the term—

 

