²³² SOCIALISM

scheme. What it contemplates is a tremendous
revolution. It is difficult, indeed, even to imagine
the amount of change in the constitution and
arrangements of society which must follow from
making the State not only the sole landlord, but
also the sole employer of labour, the sole producar
and distributor of commodities‚ the sole director of
the wills and supplier of the wants of its members.
But must not those who advocate such a scheme
be lacking in ability to distinguish between the
possible and the impossible? Is the preliminary
objection to it of impracticability not insuperablel
One can conceive the wealthier classes of the nebien,
on pressure of a great necessity, buying out the
landowners and nationalising the land. But to
suppose that the poorer classes may buy up all the
property employed as capital in productiori, and so
meato the Collectivist State, is inherently absurd.
These who are without capital cannot acquire by
purchase all the capital of those who possess it, so
as to transfer it from individuale to the community,
unless they are endowed for the occasion with a
power of creation ec nihilo which has hitherto been

denied to human beings. Collectivism, if it is to .

etart with purchase‚ or, in other words, with the.
honest acquisition of the capital of individuale,
presupposes that a stupendous miracle will be
wrought to bring it into existence.

Some Collectivists fancy that they can pany this
objection by vague discourse to the effect that
society is passing into the Collectivist stage by a
natural or necessary process of evolution. They

 

