SOCIALISM AND RELIGION 439

with secking to outbid each other; they have
obviously been influenced by the desire to counter-
act the prevalent revolutionary and anti-religione

Socialism. They agree in encouraging the State to
extend and increase its already exorbitant power
and activity. The leading Catholic Socialists of
Austria (Baron von Vogelsang, Count von Kiifstein,
Fathers Weiss and Costa-Rossetti), demand from
the State such an organisation of industry and such
regulation of the relations of capital and labour as
would leave little room for individual liberty or
enterprise. Certain French Catholic writers have
recently been advocating the same policy.

These movements show that both Catholic and
Protestant Christiana may lapse into socialistic
aberratione, but not that they can do so without
declension from Catholic and Protestant doctrine.

As to Catholic doctrine, that has been set forth in
its relation to the labour and social question with

an authority which no Catholic will disputa, and an
ability and thoughtfulness which all must acknow-
ledge, by the present Pontiff, Leo XIII, in a great

‘ historical document, the Encyclical: “Rerum

Novarum.’' There Socialisnr as a solution of the
social question is tested by the standard of Catholic
doctrine, and judged accordingly. The judgment
pronounced on it is one which leaves no room for a
Catholic becoming, without the most manifest in-
consistency, a Socialist in the proper sense of the
term. It is an express condemnation of the
absorption of the individual or the family by the
State, of the communication of property, and of the

 

