ee socmmsu l

generally owed their very existence to having been

subjected in their youth to a system of discipline v
and government which they justly rejected in their i
maturity as despotic. We may well be suspicions,
therefore, of formulae which profess to convey to us ³
iu a few words the absolute and unvarying truth ¹
conceming what is essentially relative and ever ἵ
varying. When examined they will always be found ἵ
¹to be very inadequate, and often, notwithstanding
a specious appearance of clearness, obscure or even
unintelligible.

J. S. Mill’s Essay on “Liberty” is a noble and
admirable production, but there is very little light

or help indeed to be got from what its author
considered its “one simple principle, entitled to

govern absolutely the dealing of society with the
individual in the way of compulsion and control ''-
namely‚ the principle “that the sole end for which
mankind are warranted, individually or collectively‚
in interfering with the liberty of action of any of
their number is sslf-protection; that the sole
purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised
over any member of a civilised community, against
his will, is to prevent harm to others.'’

The procf of this principle will be sought for in
the Essay in vain. The distinction between effecting
good and preventing harm cannot be consistently
and thoroughly carried through in such a connec-
tion. Soldiers are no more maintained to repel
foreign enemim, and policemen to apprehend thieves
and murderers, merely iu order to prevent herm,
without any view to doing good to the community,

 

