216 SOCIALISM

landownersÍ¾ all of them are in the same way
indebted to the community. The large incomes of
London physicians and London merchants, com-
pared with those of physicians and merchants of
equsl ability in provincial towns, are as much due
toan unsarned increment as the high rents of the
owners of the ground on which London is built. If
the people of London are rightfully entitled to the
uneamed incremcnt in thc rents of its ground-
proprietors, they are entitled also to the unearned
inerement in the sees, salerios, and profits of all
classes of its citizens.

That they are entitled to it in any case has yet
to be proved. That there is any way of exactly
separating unearned from earned increment, and

justly apportioning it among those who have con-
tributed to produce it, has yet to be shown. That

a city or nation can have any better claim to it
than an individua] has never been made out, and is
even clearly incapable of being made out. For the
value of land in London, for example, depende not

only on the wealth of London, buton the wealth of
Eugland, and the wealth of England depende cn the
wealth of the world, on the labour, production, and
abstinence of the world. If, therefore, the argu-
ment under consideration were valid, the British
nation ought in justice to hand over to other
natione no inconsiderable portion of the unearned
increment included in the wealth cf its members.
The rise and fall of the rents of land, then,
depend on the labour and good or bad fortune of
society, no otherwise than thc rise end fall of all

 

