SOCIALISM AND RELIGION 457

laws is sufficient for man’s guidance‚ and that even
all nature's laws are very insufficient, where human
virtue and divine grace are wanting ; that selfish-
nese, unresisted and uncorrected, must lead not to
national prosperity, but to national ruin; and that
all the wisdom which rulers can exercise and all the
charity which Christiana can display, will be fully
required to control its action and to counteract its
effecte.

3. Socialism has helped to emphasise and diffuse
the truth that the entire economic life of society
should be conformed tc justice. If wc ask its
adherente what they mean by justice, we will
generally find that it is what other men would
consider injusticc. But they have had at least the
merit of insisting on the supremacy due to considera·
tions of justice in the regulation of the collective life
of society as well as of the personal life of the
individual. They must be credited also with the
further and closely related merit of having search·
ingly diagnosed the moral diseases of society as at
present constitut-ed, of having persistently dwelt on
and boldly denoun'ced its sins and shortcomings, and
of having thereby contributed to ronse, widen‚ and
deepen in the public mind a consciousness that all
is far from being wholly well in contemporary
Christendom, and that our so-called Christian
England, for example, is still chargeable in many
respects with the violation of justice and the non-
fullilmeut of duty. But so far aa they have done
andare doing this they have so far done and arc

doing what the Hebrew prophete laboured to do in

 

