SOCIALISM AND RELIGION 473

general mission as the Church of Christ; one which
it cannot neglect without unfaithfulness to Christ ;
one which it can only discharge hy following the
example, teaching the doctrine, and acting in the
spirit of Christ. The mission of the Church is
essentially the complement and continuation of that
of Christ. It is to heal and sanetify both individuale
and society ; not only to present every man perfect
in Christ J esus, butte transform humanity itself
into a wholly new creature in Christ J esua.

That the Church has such a mission is so plainly
taught in the New Testament that it has been
always more or less acknowledged both by profession
and practice. The Church has in every generation
felt in some measure the necessity of dealing with
questions which were the social questions of that
generation: in every age it has so far sought to
adapt both its teaohing and its action to the ten-
deneies and wants of society in that age.

One often hears it said at the present time that the
Church has hitherto dwelt too much on individual
aspects of the Christian saith, and comparatively
disregarded public life; that the elaims of personal
religion have been too exclusively insisted on and
the elaims of social religion too much forgotten.
And certainly a considerable amount of evidence
might easily be adduced in support of the state-
ment. Yet it isvery doubtful if it be really true
as a general proposition. Ibelieve that if we look
closely at the history of the Church from its
foundation to the present time we shall rather oon·
elude that she has on the whole erred more in the

 

