COLLECTIVISM 61

labourer's right to seek a remuneration propor-
tioned to the velue of his labour. Should they
succeed in living and working together harmon-
iously and prosperously‚ without any servile
surrender of their individual wills to a governing
will or common lav, the sight of so great a miracle
will do far more to convert the world to their views
than argumentation or eloquence‚ insurrection or
martyrdom„ The world has not hitherto beheld
anything of the kind. Probably it never will. To
establish a democratia Communism is likely to prove
as unmanageable a problem as to square the circle.

Communism, however, is now generally regarded
as an effete and undeveloped form of Socialism.
The kind of Sooialism most in repute at present is
one which cannot bc carried into practice by the
voluntary action of individuale, or illustrated by
experimento on a small scale. Itis the Socialism
which can only be realised through the State, and
which must have a whole uation os a subject on
which to operate. It is the government of all by
all and for all, with private property largely or
wholly abolished‚ laudowners got rid of, capital
rendered collective, industrial armies formed under
the control of the State on cooperative principles
aud work assigned to every individua] and its velue
determined for him.

Speaking of this form of Socialism, Sch'affie

says :

“critically, dogmatically, and practicnlly, the cardinal thesis¹

l

stands out-collective instead of private ownership of all in· ,

strumento of production (land, factoriae, machinas, tools, dc.);

l

 

