SOCIALISM AND LABOUR · 131

his faculties at his own disposal‚ and be entitled
to employ them primarily for his own good. There
'is no mors slavery or dishonour in the workman
receiving wages than in the capitalist taking
profits.

Further, the wagescontract has been assailed as
unjust. It is represented by Socialists as always
favourable to the employer and unfavourable to the
employed. Workmen are asserted to be so weak
and masters so strong that the former are never
paid a fair day’s wages for a fair day’s work. The
workman‚ it is affirmed is entitled to the whole
product of his labour, but never receives in the
form of wages nearly so much as would enable him
to purchase it. But, again, when we seek for proof
it is not to bs found. The weges-contract is as
just as any other formos contract. What more
injustice is there in purchasing labour-power than
in purchasing commodities at market valuel If it
bs no wrong to a peasant woman to buy from her
eggs or butter at their current price, what wrong
can there be in buying from her so many hours
of work according to the same principle of re-
munerationl

It is manifestly contrary to fact that the wages-
system is always favourable to employers, and
unfavourabls to the employed. In a multitude of
cases it is just the reverse. Its great merit, indeed,
is that it ensures that workmen get paid for their
labour, although it bs economically worthless 01·
even wasteful. Lot me illustrate this statement.
In the west of Ireland there is to be seen the

 

