134 SOCIALISM

secures to them most important 'advantages and
which must obviously continue to be the system -
under which they will live, until dieplaoed either
by a slow and vast process 01 moral and social
evolution or by a violent and ruinous revolution
which would be unspeakably disastrous even to
themselves.

Would the compulsory labem-system 01 Collec-
tivism be any improvement on the voluntary
weges-system 01 Capitalisml It is sufficient, I
think, to quote in answer a few words 01 truth and
soberness uttered by Sohaffle: “ Democratic Collec-
tivism promises the abolitiones the wege-system
and 01 011 private service, which involves the con·
tinuous enslavement 01 the proletariat. ‘Wage-
slavery' is tc be superseded by a system of
universal service direotly for the community: the
whole 01 productive labcur would be placed in the
position 01 0 paid official department 01 the Demo·
oratic Republic. There is 00 doubt that private
service is in principle very irksome and oppressive
to workmeu 01 high aelf-respect and personal
superiority. But it has not been proved that for
the great mass 01 existing wege-labourere the
position 01 private service could not be made
tolerable by some other means, nor has it been
demonstrated that the elate 01 the working classes
cannot find within the limits 01 the capitalistic
sphere 01 industry leading positions which are also
suited to satisfy 0 high sense of sels-respect. Itis
certain, on the other hand, that there is no possible

organisation 01 society in which no one must obey,

 

