OHAPTER VI.
uarronsurssrron or run nanu.

Socraten proposes to reconstruct and reorganise
society. It has the merit of being not merely criti-
cal, but also, in intention at least, constructive. It
seeks not simply 10 pull down, but also to build up;
it would pull down only to build up; and it even
would, so far as possible, begin to build up before
pulling down, in order that society, 111 passing from
its old to its new mode of life, may not for a moment
be left houeeless.

It has often been said that Socialism has shown
itself much stronger in criticism than in construction.
Ι 00111101 altogether assent to the statement. Social-
ism is nowhere weaker, it seems to me, than in its
criticism of the chief doctrines of political economy.
It is weak all over, because it has not hed sufficient
critical discernment to apprehend the essential laws
of econcmic life. The leading representatives of
sodalium, and especially the founders of the princi-
pal early schools of French Socialism‚ have shown
no lack of constructive ingenuity. Saint·Simon‚
Fourier, and Oomte were men of quite exceptione]
constructive power. They were unsuccessful con-
structore, not owing 10 any want of constructive
ability, but because they had not a solid foundation

 

