OHAPTER V.
soommsu Ano onmmu.

ΤΗΕ tecching of Sooielism as to lebour having been
considered, we must now turn our attention to its
doctrine concerning capital.

There is no portion of its tecching to which
Socislists themselves attach greater importsnce.
They traco to false views of the functione end
rights of capitul the chief evils which prevsil in
modern society. They rest sll their hopes of a just
sociel organisation in the future on the belief thet
they cen dispel these false views and substitute for
them others which ere true. Sooielists aim et
freeing lsbour from what they regmd as the tyrsnny
of capital, end in order to ettain their end they
strive to expose end destroy the conceptions of
capital which are st present dominent. This they
consider, indeed, to be their most obvious end most
urgent duty.

What is capital? It is a kind of wealth: weslth
which is distinguished from other weslth by the
applicetion made of it; wealth which, instead of
being devoted to enjoyment, or to the satisfaction of
immdiete wsnts end desines, is employed in main·
tsining lsbour, end in providing it with materiale
end instrumente for the production of additional

 

